[Music]
eight bad skincare habits and how to fix
them you've tried every trick written in
the beauty Bible you wash your face
before bedtime apply anti-aging cream to
each wrinkle and switch skincare
products so often that you're sure
you've memorized every brand by heart
however the sad truth is that nothing
works would you resort to drastic
measures to make your skin smooth soft
and radiant once again so you need a
crazy amount of money to spend on
complicated medical procedures hold it
what if the problem is the way you treat
your skin you're probably unaware of the
bad skin care habits you've picked up
over the years
in today's video we've collected the
most popular mistakes you need to stop
making if you want to keep your skin
healthy and young for a long time before
we get started be sure to click the
subscribe button and turn on the little
notification bell now you'll always be
the first to see all the fun and
interesting videos coming out daily on
the bright side of life
now let's find out what you've been
doing wrong starting with number one you
use facial scrubs too often a facial
scrubs job is to exfoliate and cleanse
your face it's an effective skincare
procedure to slough away dead flakey
skin cells and reveal the smooth
healthier skin underneath but how often
should you use facial scrubs how can you
tell if you're exfoliating too much well
for a start you'll notice telltale signs
like flakiness dryness stinging
sensations and redness in addition
you'll notice that your skin is shiny
tight and tingly you had a bad girl the
key to proper exfoliation depends on
your skin type for normal to combination
skin it is three times a week for oily
skin five times a week for sensitive
skin once or twice a week
anti-aging experts dr. Aaron Tabor also
suggests avoiding facial scrubs that
contain ground seeds or shells because
the sharp edges can harm your skin
instead of scrubs that can injure the
upper layer of the epidermis use
chemical based facial scrubs that'll
help you remove dirt from your pores
[Music]
number two you use anti wrinkle cream
and think it's enough anti-aging creams
can do wonders for your skin by reducing
fine lines wrinkles and age spots
unfortunately the only way to get rid of
wrinkles completely is to visit a
plastic surgeon instead be proactive and
delay the appearance of wrinkles for as
long as possible by moisturizing your
skin on a regular basis dermatologist
robin ashenoff MD of Hackensack
University Medical Center advises that
prevention is the best medicine against
skin aging what if the best solutions is
staying out of the Sun well that's
practically impossible for most of us so
make it a habit to apply sunscreen SPF
30 or higher on a daily basis before you
leave home yes do this even when you're
not going to the beach
[Music]
number three after washing your face you
dry it with a towel of course you should
dry your face after washing but maybe
you're doing it the wrong way don't dry
your face by rubbing it with a towel as
this can damage your skin you will
irritate and inflame your poor pimples
and force bacteria deep into your pores
cutter gently pat your face with a towel
and then let it air dry avoid using the
nearest bath towel or kitchen towel use
a special towel preferably an organic
cotton towel just for your face again
use this towel exclusively for your face
and nothing else and remember to change
it regularly why here's a dirty secret
dr. Susan Whittier director of the
clinical microbiology lab at Columbia
University Medical Center reveals that
moist and damp towels are breeding
grounds for mersa the Mayo Clinic
describes mersa or methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus as an infection
caused by staph bacteria so you'll face
a bigger problem than pimples and acne
if you laze around in the hygiene
department by not changing your face
towel
number four you sleep with your hair
down hair contains a lot of dirt and
grease that can damage the skin on your
face thanks to the pollutants outside
it also has natural oils and chemicals
from the haircare products you use every
day like shampoo conditioner and
treatments once this potent mix touches
your face it can seep into your pores
and cause breakouts
yikes the solution is simple although
you might have a problem getting used to
it what is it sleep with your hair tied
loosely enough to not cover your face
don't use elastic bands because they can
damage your hair tie it up in a loose
ponytail using a scrunchie if you find
this setup uncomfortable wrap up your
hair in a silk scarf number 5 you don't
pay attention to your pillow and
pillowcase it may seem unbelievable in
ridiculous but yep your pillow and
pillowcase can also cause pimples and
acne how they can trigger acne meccanica
such futuristic terminology for an
annoying skin problem according to dr.
David Ebanks director and founder of the
Center for dermatology cosmetic and
laser surgery acne Mechanica is a type
of acne that comes from an object or
material touching your face you can
solve this problem by changing your
pillowcase regularly but how often
change it every two to three days or at
least once a week can you escape this
household tour by using a pillowcase
made from a different material stop your
bank debunk this idea he explained that
even if your pillowcase is made of
cotton silk or satin if you don't
launder and replace it regularly it can
accumulate grime dirt and sweat do
yourself a favor don't let a dirty
pillowcase touch your face number 6 you
ignore clay masks
this is one of the most underrated skin
care treatments
it can feel heavy on your skin but it
has loads of benefit dr. Edward Ted Lane
the dermatologist based in Austin Texas
declares that clay masks contain drime
astringent and anti-inflammatory
properties that can reduce blemishes
redness and inflammation a tighten your
skin minimize acne refine pores remove
impurities and reduce eye bags and
puffiness it truly detoxifies your skin
there are different clay masks for
different skin types use kaolin clay for
normal skin types as it's the mildest of
all clay masks if you have sensitive
skin switch to Rose clay which keeps
your skin hydrated while also removing
dirt and oil for oily skin it's better
to use French green clay as it absorbs
excess oil revealing a smooth and
healthy complexion number seven
you don't eat foods that keep your skin
healthy this is the natural way to get
radiant and healthy skin instead of
gobbling up medicines that can have side
effects it's not only good for your skin
but also for your body to give you an
idea of which foods to eat here are some
items you can add to your grocery list
broccoli reduces swelling and skin
redness after sun exposure tomatoes and
apricots protect you from the sun's
harmful UV rays while also giving you a
slight tan carrots and peaches can be a
substitute for sunbathing if you eat
them on a regular basis fatty fish which
is a source of omega-3 fatty acids keeps
your skin supple and moisturized red and
yellow bell peppers can help keep your
skin firm and strong soy improves skin
elasticity keeping it smooth and healthy
dark chocolate now we're talking helps
your skin to be thicker and more
hydrated and it also acts as a sunscreen
number eight you hide your problems
instead of solving them we're still
talking about skin problems here in case
you got confused why what were you
thinking about if you have to use
concealers all the time you probably
need to see a doctor who can help you
solve your skin problems they will tell
you which skincare treatments are
suitable for you do you practice any of
these habits tell us in the comment
section below don't forget to click the
like button and share this video with
your friends always stay tuned and
subscribe to join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]